I think the last session we were having,
oh, we were talking about tool calling
agents in lang chain,
right?
Okay.
Yeah. So this was the project that we
were doing in lang chain I think. Uh so
in the last week we have already covered
the agentic patterns plus the no code u
agent builder from openai.
So now we are going to create a lot of
agents using lang chain lang graph. So
lchain this is the only project but
quite extensive. Langchain is not
technically a framework to create
serious agents for tool calling agents.
it's good but anything beyond that you
should be checking out with langraph. So
lang graph is the actual framework for
creating more complex more serious
agents or agentic workflows I would say.
Okay. So after this we'll be directly
upgrading to LN graph agents. Okay. So
we'll be having two notebooks here. I've
got them ready. Okay. And if time
permits we'll start with a project but
uh if not today then we'll take this
project tomorrow. Okay.
Fine. So all good
any questions or anything
see
why is lang not sufficient? No uh the
question is actually wrong. uh utkash
lang chain is used for production not
for
agents langchain is the entire ecosystem
within the lang chain you have specific
packages for specific things so let's
say tool calling is there from langchain
if you want to create custom tools you
will mostly use lang chain once again
okay
but uh let's say you want to add memory
you want to add conversational
interfaces. So for some of these let's
say memory part again lanch chain
already has it but if you want to add a
conversational interface you'll use
chain lit if you want to let's say add
more complex agents you'll use lang
graph if if you want to add more on
traceability observability you'll use
lang okay uh if you want a open-source
version of the lang smith you will use
lang fuse if you want to go for
deployment you'll use lang bank and
serve. Okay. So, different components
are there within lang chain ecosystem
which are more specialized
uh for specific use cases. So, langchain
is the mother framework which will
orchestrate many of these things. Okay.
So for lang uh sorry for agents lang
graph is the better framework for
creating all sort of exotic and
customized
um
agents right and agentic workshops
but we'll still be using lang chain to
orchestrate and connect that langchain
agent sorry lang graph agent with the
other part of the workflow. So let's say
you want to put memory into that you'll
still use lang chain or if you want to
have multi-user conversation
capabilities you will still use lang
chain so agent is the same but how does
the agent interact with the remaining
system so for that you will still use
lang chain although you have created the
agent using lang graph I hope that is
clear what are the plans for the next
classes can you please provide that's
what I'm giving you sum so
uh session and the next week again. So
three sessions I'll have on Langraph. So
by the next sess next week end that is
13th and 14th we'll be mostly done with
the uh 14th and 15th sorry yeah we'll be
done with the langraph agents and then
we'll have a deployment session on 21st
karthik that's correct 21st that is
announced.
>> Yes sir.
>> Yeah. So whatever agents that we have
created, we'll pick one of these agents
and actually take it to the deployment.
So that is a plan for the 21st.
Yeah.
Okay. So, anyone facing any issues uh in
this langchain agent that we created the
last week?
Everything
all good?
So did you get chance to execute these?
Uh this IP YNB. Okay.
don't need a TPU.
So change it back to a CPU. Okay, change
it back to a CPU if that is anything
other than CPU.
And share this.
I think that was already shared in the
last session.
Fine. So let's have a quick recap. Okay.
So here we are going to build a beginner
friendly uh agents in uh LChain. We'll
be building three agents. Okay. uh one
is our Wikipedia agent, one is a web
search agent, one is a calculator agent.
Plus, we'll also create custom agents
and bind it with the LLMs. So, these are
the two things uh we are going to learn
end to end. Okay. And why do you need
agents? Uh everyone knows why do you
need tools? Okay, without tools, agents
are just you know pure LLM API calls.
Okay, so agent is a combination of three
things. I have mentioned at least three
things and you can have more but at
least three things. One is the brain of
the agent which is your LLM.
Second is the tools. Okay. Tool
execution capabilities. Okay. And then
third,
what is the other one?
State. Correct. So these are the three
things. How does agent keep a track of
what all has been done and what it is
going to do and where is it going to
update what it has done actually. So
that is the three tricks main
components. Additionally in the
application layer you can add memory. So
which is not technically a part of the
agent but it is more of a part of the
application layer. Okay. So memory as I
said right.
So uh there are uh let me just write it
here.
Okay. So in
So as I said in the agent
uh first thing is your LLM that acts as
your brain. Okay. Second is your tools.
Okay. Uh tool execution.
Third thing is uh prompt
actually uh prompt will have all the uh
task you can say instructions.
Okay.
Format of the output.
Format of output. Okay. Um what else? Uh
um role of course task plus ro. task
plus role and then the JD this is like a
JD job description for the agent okay so
task role okay you are a fan agent this
is a highle task and in detail this is
these are the things that you are
supposed to do so that's like a job
description so these are the three main
things which define the agent okay and
on top of that you can have number four
which is your agent state
and uh h
your memory component. So these are the
things which are actually handled by the
application
layer. Okay. So application layer which
is typically either in lang chain or
your langraph.
Okay. So these are your langraph
components you can say which handles
these things.
Fine. So per say the agent does not have
a state but agent has to interact with
the state. That is how you have to
understand. Agent does not have a state
of its own but uh agent will
read the state and update the state.
Okay. So it will need access to the
state which it is inherently having.
Okay.
So every agent will have inherent access
to the state. But state is like a
whiteboard. We'll talk about the state
today. Okay. when we start with the line
graph. So for now this is just a high
level you may not be able to understand
everything that's completely fine when
we are when I'm going to demonstrate
each and everything state I am going to
demonstrate memory not today but maybe
tomorrow okay so I'm going to take the
hands-on on the state how exactly we are
going to build a state step by step uh
we are literally going to build that
state from scratch okay and this clarity
will be there okay but these three
things uh will always be an integral
part of an agent uh whether it is coming
from
uh now brain is being used for your uh
thinking reasoning thinking you can say
reasoning planning
reasoning planning this is all the
so whether you create this agent by
using langraph or you use creai
creu aai or you are using autogen or any
other framework these are the three
things which always will be common in
their definition. Okay. Now, CUI may
call the state as something else. Crei
may implement a memory in a different
way. But so these because as I said
these are application layer things. So
how the other frameworks are supporting
will be slightly different. But
inherently because these are not
directly a part of the agent then how
are these things executed that will be
quite different in different frameworks.
But any agent that you create in any
other framework will have these three
things in common. Okay.
Okay. So let's continue. Um
so what is agent agent state and those
things we will not discuss right now.
It's going to be anyway discussed uh
when we start with the langraph s. So
just hold on till that point. Right.
Um
fine uh this is what we have already
discussed I think. Uh yeah so the agent
that we are going to create in this uh
lang chain is basically reasoning and
action. Okay. So you are asking the
agent something. The agent will think
okay uh let's say I'm asking the agent
what is the weather in Mumbai? it will
give a thought okay I need to check the
current weather and then it will say
that okay I have got these tools okay
uh so one of these tools is weather API
using the weather API I'm supposed to uh
fetch the weather for Mumbai okay so
Mumbai becomes the query and this is the
tool so the agent
the LLM component of the agent I would
say the LLM component of the agent will
also uh do the thinking reasoning
planning And as a result of all that
thinking, reasoning it will identify.
So that is a net deliverable by the
agent. Okay. So LLM component of the
agent will have two kind of
deliverables. First is to identify the
right the right tool or tools. Okay.
Required for that task required for the
task. So that is
done by the that identification is done
by the LLM. Okay. LLM does not execute
and then the tool execution starts.
Okay. But for the tool to execute it
will also give you the second thing. So
first is the identification step and
second is the uh query or you know query
or some additional
information needed for the tool
execution. Okay. needed for tool
execution. So for example, it was able
to identify that I'm going to use the
weather API as the tool. That is the
first component. But the second
component here was the actual query. So
here the query is extracted from the
users query. Okay. So this is the query
part. What will be the input to the
tool? So you can say this is nothing but
the input to the tool. input to the tool
is also identified. Okay. So first it
identifies the right tool and then it
also identifies the exact input I have
to give to the tool. Okay. Tool cannot
be just executed anywhere. Okay. So to
execute the tool it will need the right
set of inputs. So what should be the
right input uh for the tool execution
that is also given by the LLM. So these
are the two things which the LM
identifies. And the third thing when it
has all the information, the third thing
is basically the final response. Final
response
generation is also done by the same LLM.
Okay. But before it goes to the final
response generation, you can see the
agent response. So who responds? When I
say the agent is responding, it's
basically the LLM which is responding.
there is no other generative model
anywhere else. Okay. So once the LLM
sees that all the data has been
available to me now I have got all the
required information uh then it will do
the final response generation. So that
response generation
is also handled by the LLM. Okay. So
agent's response is technically the
LLM's response.
So these are the three things which the
agent is actually doing.
Fine.
So there are several use cases I have
already discussed. I'll not repeat
everything. Uh let's start executing
this. Um now here you might get some
warnings about deprecated functions or
deprecated u
uh or conflicting uh um package versions
and so on. I just want to get rid of all
that for now. You can install lang chain
lang chain open ain langchain community.
So all these things I have discussed. So
just install them one by one.
How agents know which agent is not
knowing protein? Agent has got a brain
which is the LLM. LLM is equipped with
reasoning and thinking capabilities. The
LLM does that thinking.
Okay.
Uh can you share the other component
responsibilities? Tool prompt. So I uh I
think I just mentioned the tool we are
going to do. Okay.
So tool is
these are the things which we have
already discussed in the last session
also reupa. Okay. So tool is required to
fulfill the user request. Okay, if the
user is simply asking questions from the
LLM, it does not need a agent. Okay,
user will ask the agent to to
perform some action. So who is
performing that action that is coming
because of the tool
and prompt is needed to
clarify what task it is supposed to do
in detail. So
all that information additional
information about the instructions
format of the output any constraints
what all has happened to to some extent
everything is provided in that prompt
state and memory we'll discuss later so
if that is missed no problem we'll
discuss that later you can just keep a
note anyway we'll discuss about those
things later
although I have touched upon Right? But
if you think it's still not yet done,
don't worry, we'll do it later. Uh I'm
expecting that you guys already have all
these API keys uh which we have already
discussed in the previous sessions.
Okay. So three tools that we are going
to uh create. Uh one is the Wikipedia
tool which is already there. Uh so this
is a Wikipedia tool. You can import from
uh the lang. And then we are adding a
wrapper over that tool. Uh it's not
mandatory but uh if you want you can add
a wrapper to change the tool name and
the tool tool description. So this is
the default name and the tool
description that you got from uh
uh the Wikipedia tool which is imported
from langchain community tools. You see
this tool is already available. I'm not
creating this tool. This tool will
import the top three results based on
the user query. And for each of the
results, the first 8,000 characters of
the Wikipedia page will be extracted and
given back to the user. So that will
become the tool execution output.
Okay. So, so this is your uh tool that
we are importing. You are creating an
instance of that tool and then uh this
is what you are doing.
And you are putting this parser for
better HTML parsing because the output
of that tool will be HTML page. So you
want to you know present it in a more
decent format to the user. Okay. So you
want to extract all the HTML elements
properly.
So that is what the XML does. Fine. So
this is the tool name and the
description you get directly from this
uh Wikipedia API wrapper. Okay. So if
you want you can change it. So you can
see this tool description
u
this is already coming from
the uh tool which is the default. Okay.
And the arguments which this tool takes.
So it is the query. So query is the
field name. Okay. Which the tool takes
mandatory. So that's a mandatory field.
Okay. And what is that? query means that
this description tells you that okay
this is a query to look up on Wikipedia
right fine so we have already covered
all these things in the last session I'm
just quickly going through uh again uh
I'm conducting a Wikipedia search on the
query as is so you can change this query
to anything okay if you want to change
let's say uh Chandraan
Chandra
let's
This is a different query I'm running on
the fly.
>> Can you maximize the screen one training
has font size?
>> Uh, you want me to increase the font
size?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah, it's good.
>> Yeah. Okay.
Fine. So this is um this I changed just
now but yeah the these are the results.
So one page is exactly having the name
title as Chandrean page. Um the other is
Chundrean one and the other page is
Chandrean Gupta. So probably this is the
name of some old city in Hyderabad.
Fine. So but with this keyword these are
the top three results that I have got.
Okay.
Uh fine. So if you want you can again uh
let's take um India AI
mission.
Okay.
India AI mission.
This is
something I am handling a project for
them.
Okay.
Fine. So, India AI is a web portal
launched by the government of India and
uh that works in close coordination with
other government bodies especially MIT.
Yes. And uh egovernance division which
is also a part of the um NIC National
Institute of Smart Governance. and uh of
course NASCOM and other schools. Fine,
that is good. And what is the other
page? There is a page on AI India and AI
safety. Fine, whatever it is.
Okay, there is a question.
So, NTS the see all the cool uh from
warnings import warning yes you have to
run that everything all the code blocks
you have to run exactly in the same uh
order
have you used some tools to generate the
skeleton cursor anti-gravity or AI tools
for this code
this code uh this entire notebook has
gone you know significant revisions so
this was the first version which I
created somewhere in the first week of
January January last year and after that
for all the subsequent batches this has
been undergoing drastic changes. So
first time it was created by
uh using the documentation page the line
chain and the langraph documentation and
then later on modified okay this was not
done using cursor anti-gravity or any of
those AI tools. So some part of it was
uh derived from uh because those guys
will again uh use their brain and the
problem with these tools is their brain
is trained 8 months ago 7 months ago
and the codes so for example these
libraries are so recent if there is a
change in the last month these guys
would not be knowing it okay these
models I'm saying okay brain means model
these models would not be knowing it. So
you cannot start creating this kind of a
thing from scratch using cursor
anti-gravity these days. Okay. Now
reason I I told you okay they will give
you something but two problems will be
there. Number one
the code will be outdated. It will use
lot of outdated and deprecated
functions. Okay especially if you are
not using the latest versions. So if
you're using let's say claude set 3.7
which was trained in 2024 you'll get a
very different code versus if you are
using claude opus 4.6.
Same goes with GPT. If you're using GPT
40 or 40 mini you will that is that was
trained in 2024 you'll get a completely
different code outdated deprecated code
versus you are using GPT 5.2 which was
trained 6 months ago let's say or four
months ago. Okay. So I usually never
start with generated codes. That's the
worst case scenario. I mean that's not
the good practice even. Okay. I always
start with the documentation, the
official documentation. This is slightly
a hard way to expect for new beginners
and so on. That is the reason you have
paid thousands of dollars to you know
subscribe to the course. So you would
not be starting from scratch. you would
not be getting into the hassles of going
through the documentation pages and you
know overwhelming yourself. Okay, but
that is our task. So we don't start from
these
models. I mean that that's never the
right approach. Okay, these models can
hallucinate any random code and then we
are trapped.
Okay. So we always start from the
official documentation pages which are
the most proper way to do it. These days
what I'm trying also to do is some of
the documentation pages some not all
also have a button called as copy page.
So if I want to generate a tutorial from
some of those I just copy that entire
page. Okay. Not the way you copy drag
and drop and control C. know there's a
specific way of copying such pages
documentation pages. So if I get that
facility then obviously I use uh that
copy button or copy function and copy
that page onto your cursor anti-gravity
whatever model you want to use. So that
now the model's code is grounded on the
functions on the classes on the way
which is mentioned in that particular
documentation page. So unless you ground
these models, they'll simply hallucinate
any random code and that is a big pain
point. Okay. So that was your answer to
the question.
Okay. So this is done. Yeah, that's what
I told you. Yeah, there is a tool you
can use to wrap your existing tools. So
this is while wrapping I'm just changing
the function name or you can say the
tool name and uh
the description. So this is just a
wrapper over a tool and tool itself was
a wrapper you can say that's why you can
see this was already named as a wrapper.
Okay.
So tool technically is a wrapper over
lot of so there might be some you know a
big Python class or a function behind
the scenes. In fact, it is not a
function. It is a class. Because uh if
you are coming from Python programming
background, you would know that there is
something called as PEP 8 style
guidelines. Okay. PEP 8 style
guidelines. If you have never followed
this page,
okay, and
I think I had disconnected.
No worries.
Yeah. So this is the class we uh created
a instance of that and within that class
the entire code for connecting with
Wikipedia
fetching all the information is there
and some customization can be done.
These are now class instance or um you
can say
yeah these are the instance variables.
These are the instance variables. Now
exactly how they are being done you have
to you know check the actual uh
documentation page which will have all
the details okay so you can click on
this you can view the source if you are
really interested it will fetch you see
that's what I told you this is a class
name and this is the complete these are
your instance variables class variables
to be specific if there is anything
which is directly coded within the class
these are class variables okay and then
there are instance variables which are
coded within the
function definitions. Okay, fine. So, uh
to use you should have the Wikipedia
Python package which we have already
installed. This is a wrapper and so on.
So, yeah, you can see this is the
complete actual code of this how this is
working. Everything is there. Okay. So,
this is how it fetches the page. This is
how it uh
connects that page to the document. And
these are the things that we are
extracting. You can see title, summary
and the source. Okay. And how many fine
uh and then how to execute? So that is
where the executor is Wikipedia query
run. So this is the executor to that
tool. Okay. Now you want to customize
that tool but you cannot customize the
entire functionality. If you want to
customize the entire functionality,
you'll have to change the way this class
has been coded. Okay? So you have to
change the source code. The only
customization right now is uh that I'm
discussing here is customizing the name
of the uh tool and the customizing the
description of the tool. These are the
only two customizable options by using
the tool
uh class from lang chain. So here you
are wrapping an existing tool and while
wrapping okay while wrapping you are
providing a custom name that's the only
thing which is happening no additional
functionality nothing okay so there was
a Wikipedia tool
and on top of it you added your own tool
so this is a wrapper over wrapper so
this is your wrapper okay
and while doing that you are just
changing the name and the description
that's functionality is exactly the same
and that's what you are saying the
functionality is coming from your
Wikipedia API runner okay so this is the
same so you are not changing that
fine then there is nothing more to
discuss we have already discussed all
these things fine now there is another
thing called stey now uh so you want to
do a web search so there are two types
of web searches so tool for web search
you can say tool
for web search. Okay. So
there is one type of tool which will
fetch the
fetch the uh you can say
actual
content of the pages content of the
pages
and fetch the the other one is fetching
the search results. fetch the search
results
page.
Now these guys are called as serpent
tools. These are called as serer tools.
S e r p er. Okay. So search engine
results page. Okay. So search engine
results page that is the full form of
SER. Okay. and any tool which is working
to fetch the so what does this tool
fetch you so this is these are the
hyperlinks of the top 10 pages okay
these are the hyperlinks the names
exactly if you do any Google search the
first thing that you get is the search
engine results page so a tool which can
fetch the search engine results page
that is called as a serer tool that's a
serp tool what is tavly tav is not a
serer
tool. Tavi is not a serp tool. Tavly
directly fetches this another uh option
another option. So one is tavly
and the other is brave. Brave search.
Okay. So you can also check this. So one
option is this other option is this
brave search. You can just go to
So there are many options for this
helper tools also. Okay, there are many
options. So brave.
So lot of uh no code platforms or there
are lot lot of you know frameworks they
also have a API. They also have a API
you can see and uh both of them are
making money. So see this page that you
see here, this page is called as the
SERP, search engine results page. This
is the page what the serp fetches
whatever I have highlighted that is the
outcome that is the output of the serper
tool. Okay. But what brave and tavally
does is it will navigate to each of
these links. It will actually navigate
to each of these links. So let's say it
will internally click and then navigate
fetch all the content which is present
in this page and then it will fetch that
content and give it to you. That's what
I have written here. It will fetch the
actual content of these pages and give
you that content in a raw format in a
polish format both. Okay.
So right now we are using tely which is
free. Brave is also free with very limit
uh you know
limits within limits I think.
So you can just check that.
So that is the search engine optimized
for LLMs and rack similar to Brave.
Okay. And there are multiple options.
I'm not saying these are the only two.
There are many more. But these are the
two which I have extensively used. That
is the way I can put it right now. Fine.
So you would use Wikipedia for factual
knowledge which is established,
verifiable. Okay. heavily for any
current events which just happened an
hour ago and you think that the some of
the news uh pages have already reported
that of course unless it is reported
unless it is there on the internet you
would not be able to fetch it. So
Wikipedia will not get updated every
day. Okay. It will be mostly used for
historical facts, general knowledge and
encyclopedic kind of information. TE is
more for current news and events.
Perfect. So how many results that you
want to fetch? Advanced board and if you
want to include the raw content which
will also have the HTML format
everything not just the snippets. Okay.
So these things I have already discussed
maybe I'll just go ahead.
Okay. And uh again there is a package
called as rich. you are importing that
rich package to uh format the output
nicely. Okay. So here the search query
is model context protocol MCP. Okay. And
this is the query result that I have
used. Tell me about the model context
protocol. This is the query and I'm now
getting all these results. So total
results found is six. And you can
actually go up and uh you know patiently
scroll everything. Okay, this is the
first result. So I've just printed the
first result here. You can see the
title, URL, content score. This is the
similarity score based on the user
query. So this is the user query. Okay.
And the query based on the title of the
page and the content. Okay. So this is
the content. And how similar is that
content to the query? That is the
similarity score. Okay. So higher the
better. You highest number is one.
Anyway, 100% match. So this is like
almost matching 90% to the user query
and this is the raw content. Okay, you
can see
so it has still stripped off the HTML
tags but uh still the formatting tags
are there. Formatting tag means the
markdown formats. I think the last class
I did talk about markdown formats. You
can see these are the markdown format
codes. This backslash and the hashes
these are all your markdown. So two
hashes means H2 heading, single hash
means H1 heading. Okay. Star, star means
bold. So anything related to the
formatting is preserved but the actual
HTML tags are removed. Okay. So this way
you are still able to get the entire
content but without the HTML tags which
is not needed anyway.
Fine. So I have already given the
explanation for these. Okay. So this is
the summary what all we have learned
till now. Okay. Now we want to build our
own tool. Let's say we'll build a
calculator tool and then how do we
connect that tool to the LLM. So till
now we have got two tools.
The Wikipedia tool that every tool we
have executed both the tools they are
working. And now I will connect these
tools to the actual model. That's the
next thing we are going to do. Fine. So
let's create a simple map tool uh using
a tool decorator. So earlier we had used
the tool class.
Okay. Now this is the tool decorator. So
there are two different things that was
capital T tool. So whenever the name is
in capitals okay as per the pepit style
guidelines that will be a class. This is
not a class. This is a function you can
say and you're using that as a
decorator. Okay. So I'm creating a
simple tool which will take two numbers
and multiply those two numbers. it will
simply return the multiplication result
of those two numbers. Okay. So I'll just
execute this tool.
Okay. So multiplyname the this is the
name of the tool. This is the
description of the tool and these are
the arguments. Arguments means what are
the
inputs needed by this tool. Okay. What
are the inputs needed by this tool. So
this tool needs small A and small B.
Okay. These are the two inputs that the
tool needs. Fine.
Uh, this tool is used to multiply the
two numbers and this is the name of the
tool as such. So, you can see three
double quote start, three double quote
end. And how do you code the description
for that? I would strongly suggest you
to follow PEP 257 style guidelines. Pep
style dockstring standards. That is 257
is docking standard. Okay. So please
spend time some time in understanding
these standards. Okay. So that is how a
proper
coding of the documentation string
happens. Okay. So how do you do that?
This is what we call as the
documentation string starting from three
double quote ending with three double
quotes just below the name of the
function name of the class. This is
called as the dock string. Okay. So is
very very important. If you are going to
aspire a serious developer role, okay,
creator role, builder role, anything
related to that, you have to adhere to
these standards, okay? Or speaking about
these standards during your interviews
can make a huge change in the mindset.
So that they know only those people who
actually code by themselves, they know
these standards. Those people who are
completely dependent on uh these models
to write down the codes, they would
never know the names and numbers of
these standards. You see, we have done
that in the last 15 years. I have
hardcoded all these several lacks of
codes, I would say. So, I know these
standards because all your production
level code has to adhere to these
standards. Okay. And the third thing
that you should know strongly is Pantic.
Okay. So pi dantic.
So learn this pi dantic. Okay. So these
are the three things you should be you
know very comfortable uh for any
developer role, builder role, agentic
builder role, LLM engineer role,
anything which is not to do with let's
say
architect okay or a decision maker. But
even for architect you have to ensure
that your team who is writing the code
follows these documentation standards.
Okay. So, three things I'll just put
these names in the chat. PEP 8,
PEP 257.
So, PEP 8 is your style guidelines. PEP
257 is doc string standards. PEP 8 has
been written written literally that page
has been written by none other than
Gaido Jan Rasim who has who is the
creator of Python language. You can just
search Pep 8. The result that you get
style guideline for Python code the very
first result that you get is the name of
the guy Gaido one rum he is the creator
of Python language okay so it's coming
directly from the source and the third
thing is pantic so these three things
you should be comfortable okay if you
don't want to lose your job to a AI
model because these models are anyway
trained but
How do you communicate to the
interviewer? Okay, that you also can
write down meaningful production level
code which adheres to these standards.
So softly while making your
presentation or you know interview just
utter these two three key words and see
the impact.
Okay. So these are some tricks. Okay.
Although I mean but you should look into
these pages and be comfortable already.
what is mentioned. Okay, it shouldn't
happen that you are just bluffing out
different names or you know keywords
without actually knowing it. Fine. Uh so
you can see the data type is a
structured tool and let's test this
tool. Yes. So I'm invoking the tool
because this is all a tool created by
using lang chain. So anything in lang
chain has to be invoked to run. So
invoking means to execute the tool to
execute the chain to run that chain or
to execute that chain. So invoking means
u execution in simplest terms. So you
are executing the multiply tool by using
these two inputs right and you are
printing the output. Fine. You can just
change these numbers and say okay let's
say I'll make it uh 1.234
and 3.14
say let's see.
So this is the output m.
Okay. Again this can be minus
uh
91 and this is uh 13.28.
Let's see.
So you're getting something. No doubt.
So you can do integer multiplication.
You can do floating point multiplication
anything that you want but uh
multiplication of a integer with a
string will only replicate the string.
Okay. So you can say hello space
hello space and see what happens.
Hello hello hello hello let's say I'll
make it uh 10. So hello gets replicated
10 times.
So that is the basic thing again from
Python.
Okay, let's see if there are any
questions.
Mary is asking what is the benefit of
wrapping? Right now the only benefit as
I have shown you okay is to change the
name and the description. That's it.
Teav is a web scraper uh in a way. Yes,
not web scraper. Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Ward, it's not a web scraper. I have
repeated that several times. Okay, it's
your search engine
uh results fetcher you can say. Plus, it
will actually fetch the not just the
results, but it will actually go and
navigate into those search results and
fetch the content of the top five, tops
three, top four, whatever that number
you are putting. It will fetch the
content of the top search results.
Okay.
Um,
So if it is not standard tool like a
Wikipedia custom tools can also be
created. Yes, that is what we have seen.
Next. Okay. There is one more question
by Kasha.
Pantic is similar to type.
Okay. Um
they are related in a sense. Okay. I
would say u I mean
describing what fields exist and what
they have but different layers are
there. Okay. Type is mostly
uh you know for static type checking.
Okay.
It doesn't have validation that's
another uh thing which I remember or no
coercion is there. Okay. No parsing or
no coercion. And uh it's good when you
want to have a lightweight
implementation uh
and you already trust that the input
which will be given by the user the user
is going to stick to that format. Okay.
So tabict is more informative you can
say whereas pantic
will enforce data types. Okay. That's
like data validation plus parsing
I would say uh and coercion uh in a
sense it will not only validate but
coers coers means it will force the user
to pass the exact same data type in the
inputs if the data type doesn't match it
will actually throw an error so that
coercion is implemented by using pyantic
okay it will also have defaults what is
the data type it is expecting so you can
set up the defaults and constraints and
so on. So that is what
my understanding about these two are.
Okay. So going ahead.
So from piantic I'm importing the base
model. Again we'll be using this base
model to uh create a schema for the
tool. Okay. So we have this pyantic and
field tools.
And then the structure tool. This will
be needed to
Yeah. So this will be needed to create
your uh tool and bind it with the LLMs.
Again, this is coming from your lang
core tools. Fine.
Um okay. So here I think it is already
written uh the base model is coming from
your pyantic. So definitely we'll be not
only implementing the data type. So it
expects a and b. A and b are supposed to
be float. And this is the name or
description of that a and b. So what is
a and b? That description is given by
first number and second number. So these
are the fields which are described by
this. So it's like a description you are
adding to the inputs. simple description
that you are adding to the inputs. Okay.
So base class essentially or sorry this
base model is actually like a base class
which you are inheriting from the
pyantic model. Okay. So it's like
inheriting a schema. Okay. And you are
building on top of that schema.
So this schema already has these
components built in. for example,
runtime validation, coercion, uh
type parsing. Okay, so this is already
built in within that base model.
Defaults and you know field description.
So all these are coming from the base
model. You are just modifying that base
model and creating your own class
definition for the data type. Uh okay.
And here then you are creating this
multiply.
Okay. So this is taking a and b again
this is like float and this will simply
result. So it's the same as the previous
function.
Now you are creating a structured tool
from this function. So structure tool
dot from function you are passing that
function. So essentially whenever we say
that tool is being executed you are
technically executing a function behind
the scenes. So which function you will
be executing behind the scene. This is
the you can provide a different name but
usually we don't change the name that
will only lead to confusion. This is the
description of the tool. You can say now
this multiply is the tool whereas this
multiply that you created here was a
function. So you are wrapping that
multiply function with the tool. Okay,
you are wrapping it by using here. Okay,
and now this multiply which will go into
your memory. Okay, will be a multiply
named. So let me just show you this step
by step. I just
execute this
and let's see type. Okay, so as of now
your multiply is a function, right? Now
I'm going to wrap this function with the
tool. Okay. So now when I execute this,
the same multiply will have a different
data type.
Now the same multiply has become a tool.
Okay. So that multiply was earlier a
function. Okay. And now that same
multiply has become a tool because we
have wrapped it. And that's what exactly
this is doing. Fine. Schema. So schema
will tell you that okay this tool needs
these these fields for the execution
which all fields it needs uh it needs
field A and field B. So essentially you
have to do the mapping. So if uh let's
say this mapping has to be same as this
mapping otherwise again there is a
problem. Okay.
So if the function needs three inputs,
the tool also will have to have three
inputs, right? Or the third input can be
a default if it is not provided. So that
you can uh change.
Okay. So when I execute, I get the name
of the tool, description of the tool,
and now the name of the fields and their
descriptions. Okay. So name of the field
and their descriptions.
Let's test this tool. Okay. So now this
multiply was a tool which we created
using lchain. It's a lanch chain tool.
Okay. And now that tool is also working
fine. Earlier we checked that okay this
multiply.
So now you might think okay I was able
to create the same tool just by wrapping
with at the rate
you know uh decorator. So this is the
simplest way. For very very simple tools
you can actually use this technique. For
very simple tools, you can use this. But
here the problem is there is uh no way
to force there is no way to force the
user or even tell the user that this
tool needs exactly these two inputs.
Number one and validation is not there.
And if you want the coercion and
validation, you have to go with the
pantic version, the structure tool that
we created just now. So for example if I
just execute this
uh and I'll just show you who's now the
same is a structured rule okay basically
because of that but again enforcement is
not there so that you have to remember
which means if I try to
multiply
uh let's say 2.12
with ABC let's see what happens
So it will say that this is not callable
and some type of error. Now let's see
what happens if I
okay
fine. Now that has again become a
structured tool after you have enforced
it using pyante. Uh you can test it.
Okay. Now let me do one more thing.
Actually it is already there. I have
done it. Okay. So if you just directly
do it without
see these are the problems. Okay.
So when you invoke it with a number and
a text then you will get a problem
because it was expecting both A and B as
it was expecting both A and B as floats.
You can see A is float B is float. So
that is the advantage of pyantic. It
will give you a proper validation
report. Okay there is a validation error
in the calculated input. So that pyantic
enforces.
Fine. So these are the some real world
use cases some people had been asking in
the chat. Okay. So tool that searches
the web and extract that is your web
search tool. It can be used in research,
research assistant, competitive
intelligence gathering, content
aggregation, data collection based on on
the-fly you know concept and the topic
generation and these are the things
which are included in that tool. First
the searching, second is converting the
HTML content into a markdown content,
stripping of the HTML tags and the third
is uh summarizing that markdown content
also. So teary tool I think we have seen
the last session.
So here the tell me about the Microsoft
Q1. Now this is already Q
three results of 2025 should be
available.
Okay.
Yeah I think it is available. So Q3
results of Microsoft are available now.
This is already Feb. So it should be
available.
or even Q4 because in India we follow a
different format. So Q4 results also
should be available.
Okay.
And it talks about SEC filings and so
on. Fountain here. Nice. So I'm able to
get all these results and probably these
are coming directly from the Microsoft's
page. Okay. We can see
the very first result is
So this much content you have you know
extracted from the internet. Yeah. So
Microsoft MSFT that is the you know
ticker. Okay. For Microsoft on these
NASDAQ and so on. Q4 earnings report
that is exactly the name of this page.
You can navigate to this and see the
title of the page is Microsoft. I put my
cursor over there. You can see MSFT Q4
earnings report. So that is the title
and this is the results that was
fetched. You can just check that. So
this is the overall content 99.99
is the content matching similarity. So
you see without you having actually
going to the Google or any other search
engine without you having typing down
anything without you having clicking on
the results without you having pulling
all those results so this is all being
automated by this simple tool I'm still
not calling it as an agent this is a
simple tool call can do so many things
you see and this is the raw now in the
raw you you see that if I just go to the
view page source you will have all sort
of hyperlinks and everything. Okay. So
that is a raw content basically this has
fetched. Okay. So moving on.
So this is the actual URL or the first
result that is CNBC 2025. Um and then
you can convert all that result into
markdown also. Now
this can give you results if it is
forbidden. So that is a problem. Many of
these uh websites will not allow
the content to be scraped properly and
that is the reason you will get this
HTTP error. Okay. So this can happen. So
let's try for some other URLs. Okay.
Client 429 error. Too many request
again. Okay, fine. What about the other
one?
403 error. So mostly 403 error is what
you will expect. Okay, because all these
web pages are reserving their rights. At
the end of each of these page, you will
see all rights reserved and that is
where the problem starts. Okay. So in at
the end of any of these pages you will
see copyrighted information all rights
reserved or something like that. You can
see all rights reserved and that is a
culprit here because all the rights are
reserved.
This is the error you get. So if it is
coming from Wikipedia or any of those
then this is not going to throw an error
but otherwise
these are the reasons as per my
understanding. Okay.
HTTP error. Okay. Um
Cool.
Yeah. So this is the document title. Uh
and then you can see all the page
content.
So you are able to fetch the page
content but probably the conversion into
markdown format that was giving an error
I guess. Yeah. Yeah. This conversion
itself was just green and this is a
different package. Okay. So you are able
to already extract the content by using
tei. Say te was already extracting. But
if you try to extract the content using
the URL using a different package. Okay.
Let's say you feed any other URL
to this markdown. So the beauty of this
markdown is it will extract the webpage
content and give you in a markdown
format but only few of the pages will
work not all but our tavi has already
extraction of the our tavi has already
done the extraction of the web page
results and that is what I'm printing
below see this is the content coming
from tavly okay not coming from your
mark it down as such okay because this
anyway failed right this anyway failed
This document content anyway failed. So
where is this document content coming
from then? Okay. This is coming from
Tavly actually. Okay.
So this was the search result you can
see.
So all this is coming from now I can
pass that to mark it down for formatting
later. Okay.
So let's bind all of these and uh you
know put it in a more structured format.
So configure the table for search
results. Some people were asking for the
additional configurations. I would
strongly encourage you to go to the
in documentation page. All the further
customization can be discussed over
there. Okay. So what is fetching the
results?
You can see
table search results maximum and there
are many more options table search
results here I'm doing
table search results. So one option here
is how many pages you want to fetch
advanced mode include the answer false
and raw content true. So include answer
means basically it will try to uh you
know generate some uh LLM generated
because Tele is powered by an LLM behind
the scenes which also tries to summarize
the content present in that web page. So
I don't want that to happen. I just want
to see the raw content.
Okay.
And then
you are uh creating the Tory tool and
then wrapping it with your own structure
tool. So either rate is your structure
tool that we have seen. Okay. But you
are not enforcing piantic right now
because you are doing in a lazy way. You
can do it in a proper structure tool
thing and you can bind a proper uh pi
tech schema to it.
Okay.
So tally tool.invoke. So this is a
function which will invoke the ty tool.
Invoking the t tool means execute that
tool. So whenever this function is
called it will execute that every tool
get all the results and these all the
results are stored in that okay which
contains everything. Now this docs is a
empty list. Now one by one I'm going to
fetch all the results. That is what the
TQDM results does. So it will give you a
progress bar. So the purpose of TQDM is
to give you this progress bar.
Okay. Otherwise you can directly iterate
for result in results also you can do.
Okay. But TQDM of the results will
create this kind of a progress bar.
That's the only thing. Then you are
extracting the title from the results.
You are extracting the content and then
you are appending all the content within
that uh empty list. And if any of these
fail okay because there are times where
T is not able to navigate the actual
page content because of again
restrictions and so on. Yes, it happens
even with Tavi. Okay. So in those cases
it will simply fall back to this if the
content is empty or if there is any
other error. Okay. So we are going to
use two engines to extract the content.
One engine is the te itself which we
will favor because it will have a highly
higher success rate. The other is to use
the mark it down. We'll provide a URL to
mark it down and mark it down will
extract the web page. So let's say I
have I'll just click on any of these
links. Okay. So this is the web page
link. Let's see how the markdown
actually works. I'm just so this didn't
work. No worry. I say that URL
is this. Okay. Now let me
print this URL.
Okay.
And see what happens.
So
it has converted into a converter
result. Yeah. So I'll fetch the actual
result from there. Okay. And see if this
can be printed directly.
So it did not. Yeah. That's exactly what
I was trying to show you. See this is
actually fetching the actual content
from that.
Yeah,
this is actually fetching the content
from the URL which I just clicked. So
this is the URL which I clicked. Okay.
And uh I can navigate it. There is
nothing uh uh you know restricted on
this page. I'm assuming since the page
does not restrict anything. You can see
nothing of that sort. All rights
reserved copyright something something.
So there is no restriction on this page.
Feel free to report issues whatever it
is. So this is a open page. Any web
scraper can read this. So normally this
is a page for any web scraper. Then
your markdown and te will definitely
have a much higher success rate. Fine.
it will see it has very beautifully
converted the content of this entire
page into this markdown format. So these
are the uh lectures uh and then this is
the table in which it had done the
formatting proper slides are there links
are there okay and everything
super
this is a markdown format even you can
click on any of these
Okay.
Okay. So, let's move ahead. Uh, this is
done. Done. Done. Now, you can check uh
mark it down. This is for I think model
context protocol. Yeah,
docs is not defined. Where is the docs?
Okay, I have to run this query. Sorry.
So, let me run this query. Model context
protocol. And these are the docs that I
have. Okay. And this is the first
document I have got.
Okay.
>> Now building a weather tool.
>> Okay. So weather API key has already
been imported.
This is the query u and this is a base
URL. Okay. So you are creating a URL
complete URL by attaching the query with
a base URL. And now you are using the
requests
uh Python library. This is the request
Python library. Okay. To do a API call.
So this is a crude API call being done.
You can use a curl command also. Okay.
So cull is like complete URL. Okay. Um
fine and response 200 means uh your API
call was successful. 200 is the status
code. So you can have status code like
403 429 API rate limit le 403
authentication error can also be there.
Server not responding timeout error 503
error uh 401 error. So a lot of these
error codes you should remember. Okay.
Um API
uh you can say
rest API
status codes status.
Oops. Okay. Please help yourself. I mean
I can only give you uh things. Okay. So
you can see the success codes are
present in uh 2x like 20. These are
success codes. Redirection code. client
error codes, servers and these are the
fiveformational things. So you can just
check these are the most important ones.
So again this is only for people who are
looking for real developer kind of
roles. Okay. So otherwise the solution
architects and those things are not
expected to know. If you know fantastic
okay but again this is not a part of the
curriculum. So don't expect me to
explain each of these. Okay. So please
help yourself.
So but definitely
since 99% of the model access you are
doing using API calls whether it is
proprietary or open source. Okay since
you are using models using API calls.
Right now I'm not using a model but
still it is API call. So any API call
will follow the same structure the same
status code everything. Okay. So it
becomes relevant to discuss.
Okay. So this is the complete JSON
object as a response I have received
from the server. Okay. So you can see uh
let me just print it. Okay. So now that
this code works, I can wrap this into a
tool. So I have wrapped that code into a
tool simply. Okay. This code works. Now
that code I'm wrapping as a tool. So
first to wrap it I have to create a
function which will take a query string.
I'll just attach that query string here
and u
create a URL. Okay. And
along with the API key and the query
okay so query is being taken by the
function here. So this query is wrapped
along with the API key and the base URL.
So the complete URL gets created and you
just use the request module. Uh this is
a request package to execute.get means
so there are get and post. Okay. So post
is like interacting with the server.
Here you are not interacting you are
just fetching some details. So you are
using the get method. So API calls can
be get method or post method. These are
the two most there are many more but
these are the two most uh common methods
to interact with the rest API calls. Get
method and post method. Okay. So
whenever you are sharing some
information with the server that is a
post method. Okay. Here you are just
getting the information from the server.
So that is a get method. So this
response object convert that into a JSON
and this is your data and from that you
are fetching all the results. Okay. So
you see your location has all the
details. So I'm fetching that. So let me
just execute this. Change this to good.
Let's see if that works.
It works right. So this is the lat long
and uh time
and every other thing. So what is the
current temperature like? 16°. Yeah. At
least I'm not wearing my regular
heavyduty jacket today. So, this is much
better.
Fine. That's okay. And this is just to
do a much nicer formatting. Nothing
more. Okay.
This is just to do a nicer formatting.
No exotic thing.
Fine. And uh
the last section where you want to
create your own tools. Maybe we can take
a small break here and then we can
create our own tools. So that we will
discuss after the break. Okay.
Uh let's see if there are questions. I
think Python does not have data type.
That may be the reason by denting. So
see there is core python which we know
as data types in core python int, float,
string, boolean, complex okay or even uh
uh data structures or containers called
as list
tpples, dictionaries, strings, okay,
sets. These are the data types which are
collections in Python.
There's no stand I mean direct way of
validating which is why you are using
additional package which is by renting.
How about the payw wall?
No, it cannot skip the pay wall
obviously. So if it needs authentication
it say for example what we did here is
also a kind of a payw wall only without
this API key it will not be able to
make. So just change the API key or
delete this key part means you are
making an API call without the key means
that's going to fail in the
authentication. So payw wall is nothing
but a way to authenticate yourself.
Okay. Same thing if you are using open
AI key means you are
authenticating yourself for the payment.
You have indirectly
uh you know agreed to the server that
I'm ready to pay for this API cost and
this is the key where you will do the
billing.
So
usually this is how it is done. Plus
there can be some bearer tokens and
other things also. So apart from the key
there could be some bearer tokens for
additional authentication. So I'm not
saying that this is the only way the
authentication can happen. Plus there
can be additional tokens. Okay. Session
tokens can also be there. For example
with your broker APIs uh you want to use
zerodha or motil or whatever. Okay.
There is something called a session
token also. you have to generate that
session token and that session token
gets generated after the
key authentication has been done. So
first you authenticate yourself with the
key and then the session authentication
happens. There are two levels of
authentication. So during the generation
of the session token it will ask you for
the OTP but before generating the OTP
you'll have to authenticate by providing
the right keys. Okay. So, so that makes
it three level now. Okay.
Fine.
Okay.
B.
Okay. So tool calling those things I
have already explained.
So tool calling also called as function
calling. Ability to understand what a
tool does decide which tool generate the
correct parameters. So yeah these are
the things which I've already mentioned
as a part of
the LLMs. Okay. Uh
so identify which tool and then generate
the parameters. These all things I've
already mentioned process the tools
output. Continue the conversation.
Right.
So now there are two approaches. One is
uh to directly use the models which are
capable of tool calling and one is to
use the models which do not have the
capability of using tool calling. So
these are the older models essentially.
So most of the models in fact all the
models which have been commercially
developed the last one one and a half
years they are supporting tool call out
of the box. You don't have to really do
anything unless you are creating a model
from scratch or unless you are using a
very small model maybe under 1 billion
parameters or a half a billion
parameters.
Okay. So whenever you want to use a
model just check if that model supports
tool calling.
So if it supports tool calling then
fantastic. I mean your job is much much
easy. But if it doesn't support tool
calling then you'll have to you know
take some special measures. That's the
catch here.
Okay. So if the model supports tool
calling you can just bind those tools
and you don't have to do anything. You
just there is one line of code which
will connect the tools with the model
that is called as tool binding.
Otherwise if it doesn't support then you
have to provide any number of
information to the model that you have
access to so many tools this is the
description for each tool and so on and
then the model will decide okay you'll
have to provide the name the description
the parameters everything the entire
history geography of that tool has to be
provided to the model okay
and then the model will only give an
output that this tool is supposed to be
used and with these parameters but with
the tool binding. Okay, if the model
already supports the tool, then
the tool itself will have the
information about the name of the tool,
the description of the tool and the
arguments which are needed to call that
tool. So all that you don't have to
explicitly pass or share to the model.
You just bind the tools and it reads all
this information inherently.
Okay. So tool calling for models which
have a native support. So uh natively
understands when to call a tool, which
tool to call, what are the parameters,
what are the results. Okay. So this is
all inherent built-in you can say. Let's
take one example. GPT5 mini I'm taking
right now.
Uh if you want to use a temperature as
the parameter, you can use GPT 40. Okay.
GPT4 mini also supports uh tool calling.
Fine.
So right now we have these three tools
web search and get weather. So this is
going to use uh tavly this is going to
use weather API which I have already
shared and this is a simple multiply
tool. Okay so now I'm going to bind
those tools that's exactly what I told
you because this particular model
supports native tool calling. So all you
have to do is just bind the tools. So
when you are binding the tool now each
tool has its name, description, list of
arguments. All those informations are
directly passed on to the model. You
don't have to write down an additional
line of code extra nothing. Now I have
to create a chat prompt template and
I'll pass the user parameters directly
to the model using runnable. Okay. So
chat prompt template is to create the
overall prompt template. So this is my
prompt and uh I'll pass some of the user
uh queries. So for example the Mumbai or
even these numbers I can pass this as
variable into the prompt and that needs
the runnable pass through. Okay. So
without the runnable pass through your
prompt would be static. But if you want
a dynamic prompt where the user is able
to provide the numbers uh the user is
able to provide the text uh basically
the city and the user is able to provide
this query okay then it has to go via
runnable pass through right
so it's a simple prompt and I'm invoking
this charge jupitive model with this
prompt okay now this is right now static
so I don't need runnable so you see
nowhere I have used runnable as of
And all the information is there. Okay.
Now when I execute the results you can
see uh okay there are so many things you
can see type of tool call tool call tool
call finished reason and so on. Let me
make it a bit more easy for
comprehension. You can see the model was
able to identify that for the first
question I'll have to use the multiply
tool with these parameters.
For the second question I'll have to use
the uh get weather API with these
parameters. And for the third question,
I'll need to use this tool with this
query parameter. Right? So
correct. So now you can actually also
create entire toolkit. Okay, that's
basically a list of tools which is much
more formatted you can say. Okay, it's
like a dictionary map. So instead of
just binding the tools as a list, what
we have done here, I'm just binding the
tools as a list. You can see the data
type is a list. So instead of a list you
can use a
a dictionary. Okay. So this is a
dictionary which is having the name of
the tool and the overall tool. Name of
the tool and the tool. Name of the tool
and the tool. Okay. What is the benefit?
It's easy for tracking. That's it.
So now the LLM will actually return the
name of the tool rather than the name of
the tool. Now what do you mean by each
of them? name of the tool is this and
the name of the tool is this. Okay, name
of the tool means the actual name of the
Python function or the class being used
as a tool. That is the second thing and
this is a human specified name of the
actual tool. So for example, this tool
could be called as tely API wrapper
runnable. Now that's very complicated
and technical. Here this can be called
as tely web search. So you can provide a
userfriendly name like TV web search and
here it would be Tavly API wrapper
something like that. So instead of the
LLM returning you Tavly API wrapper so
and so it will return this okay TV web
search that that's much more easy to
comprehend that's the exact purpose of
creating a toolkit as a dictionary.
So now I'm uh
using see the results al already has
three tool calls. These are the tool
calls. Now I'm iterating on each of the
tool call here. Okay, I'm iterating and
just selecting the name of the tool and
invoking each of the tools and printing
the output of the tools. Right? And this
is just a empty line that I'm doing. So
let's see. So this for loop is going to
invoke
the tools one by one. Okay. And print
their results. So first the multiply
tool was invoked. This is the result I
got. Then the weather API was invoked.
This is the result. And then the web
search
was invoked and I have got the results.
You can see
all I have to do is just pass these
three results back to the model and then
the model will generate the overall
answer. And that is where I'll need the
overall prompt template. Right? and see
that is where I'll need the prompt
template now. Okay, so I'm using the
chat prompt template with static prompts
as of now. Let's do that and see and
then we'll use a runnable version. So
this is a static prompt converting that
into a prompt template you can see and
that prompt template is chained
with the tools using the pipe operator.
So the output of the prompt template
will go to the charg tools. So what is
this charge JP tools? This is the charge
GPT model which has the tools already
bound. Okay. So you have already bound
the tools with the chargity. You can
just go up and check. So that is charge
GPT with tools here. Yeah. You have
already bound
the tools with the charg. So that is the
charge which already has the information
about the tools. So essentially you are
passing the prompt template to the model
with tools
and now you invoke that chain. Basically
now you execute that chain okay with a
different city name and let's see what
happens.
Yeah. So I've got the results. You can
see get weather
current weather in Tokyo today and so on
to call arguments.
Yeah.
Okay. And uh did you notice one thing?
The city name is being provided as a
variable. You can see and that city name
I'm mapping here. So that is being done
by your runnable. Okay. So,
so right now this is simple. So
explicitly I'm not using renable I think
in this code. Yeah, Reneable is not
explicitly being used. But if you have
more complex change then probably
renable will be needed. So this was
simple. Yeah. So a single prompt
template is there. So you can pass that
variable to that prompt template by the
uh exact name of the query sorry the
variable the name of the variable is
city here. So you have a city as a
variable and the value and that's how
you are passing the city name into that
entire that's why it did not fetch the
Mumbai which was already hardcoded
above. This is the Tokyo
fine. Uh now I think this is how to use
the grock if you want to use it but this
is come purely optional. I think grock
demonstration I have already done but uh
just in case you want to cheat see I the
intention for this is to show you that
even the gro models the open-source gro
models also support tool calling. Okay.
So before executing this the next thing
is we should go to
gro and uh
verify which all models are available
because time to time these model names
change. So you can use one of these
models. Let me use the 3.370 billion
parameter versatile model. This is the
one which I'm using. So what I'm going
to do is just replace this text
with that.
Okay. and uh explain the importance of
fast language models or let's say
you can explain the difference between
encoder
and decoder
uh transformers.
Let's see.
Yes. So I have got the results. So this
is the encoder, the decoder and the key
differences. So it is essentially
working. You see this is a direct API
call. There is no tool or as such
anything. This is just to check whether
the API call is working in the first
place or not. So I have given my API
key. Uh this is the complete chat
completion API. How did I get this code?
If you go to API docs or playground, go
to the playground. So this is the code
we have got. So I'm going to use 7B
versatile model. So this is the code I
just copy pasted here. Okay. So just
copy this and uh this is the same code.
Ro content model name stream false. You
can see the model name is there. Uh ro
content. Yeah. And if you want you can
use the other parameters also. stream,
top peak, completions, temperature and
so on.
And from here you are uh you know
fetching the actual model response from
the chat completion. The chat completion
is the API response whereas the model
response is present in the content.
Okay. So don't get confused. This is the
API response from the entire server that
contains multiple things as we have
seen. What do you mean by multiple
things? These are the other things.
Okay. Other things you see these are the
other things which are present.
Yeah. These are the other things. You
are not interested in all of these,
right? You're only interested in the
actual content of the uh LLM API.
So, which is what I'm extracting from
here, the actual content part. Fine,
that is done. And uh now in this code,
what we have used is directly the gro
model. Here we have used directly the
gro model from the official gro package
SDK from the official gro SDK. Now there
is a lang chained version of that as
well. Okay.
Okay. Lang chained version of the gro
model. Here you see the API call is much
more easy to understand comprehend.
Okay. I think this model would be
available 3.1 instant.
Yeah 3.1B
instant is there. Or if you want you can
change that model also. Doesn't matters.
Okay.
So keep the temperature low for factual
based questions. And you see I have been
able to create my gro model. Advantage
now I can go up and just change this
with the gro model. That's it. Okay. So
okay. So without native support now
these were the grock models which
already have the native tool calling
support. So structured output parsing
can be done and so on.
Uh
so the technique to make the support
available is prompting
and then further output parsing followed
by using a pact framework the reasoning
and acting. So what does this mean?
Basically, it means that your overload
will increase. Overload of API call will
increase. And where is that overload
coming from? This prompt template will
have not only what the user is asking,
but will also have all the information
about all the tools available, tool
names, descriptions and many other
things. So that is the extra overload
I'm talking about. Okay. So that is your
structured prompting. Plus the output of
that
API call from the model may be in the
form of a string. So I don't want the
string output. I want to convert that
into a JSON format or into a
u maybe a different format like
a a dictionary. Okay,
which will be used for the further uh
step in the workflow. So you'll have to
do some output parsing or
post-processing you can say and
reasoning action has to be implemented
manually. What it means is first the API
call has to be made and that API call
will tell you all the tools. Tools have
to be executed and then the output of
the tool execution has to be fed back
manually to the model for observation
or reasoning and then the model will
finally generate the actual response. So
all of these steps has to be manually
appended uh you know created. So that's
what I just mentioned here. So let's
take one example. So I'm using the JSON
output parser and a chat prompt template
again. And this is to render the test
description for each of the tools. Okay.
So you see I have a list of tools and
I'm binding that or rather wrapping that
tools with the render text description.
So this will print the
description attached to each of the
three tools. So this was the first tool.
This is the description. This is the
second tool. This is the description.
This is the third tool. This is the
description. So this function was able
to extract the description from each of
the tools. So it literally and uh behind
the scenes it runs a for loop and for
each of the tool within the tools it
will use the tool dot name to get this
name.
It gets tool dot uh uh args to get the
arguments and tool dot description to
get this
and then the formatting is done in
inherently. So that is all being handed
inside this function.
Okay. So now I've got the list of tools
the names and what they do along with
the data types of each of them uh sorry
each of the inputs to these tools.
That's a pretty structured format.
Now, this is a system prompt. You are an
assistant that has access to the
following set of tools. Here are the
names and descriptions for each tool.
See, that's exactly what I was trying to
tell you, right? So, it can still be
done, but you have to provide the
complete information about all the tools
available uh to the model. Okay? And
then the user queries are going to be
there anyway. Plus, formatting
instructions are there. Now, what is
this formatting instruction? So return
the name of the uh tool and the input
which will be used to execute the tool.
Second, the entire response has to be in
a JSON blob with the name of the tool
with the arguments and the arguments
should be in the form of a dictionary
with the key value mapping. Okay. So the
key in the dictionary will be the actual
parameter name within the tool and the
value is what you have to tell me for
each of those keys.
So now let's execute that prompt
template.
So user question is this. So input is
still the user question. You can see
above. Uh I think I might have written
somewhere. I'll just show you what is
this input. Okay.
Yep.
I think I have
Oh sorry sorry this input is going to
come from your um later stage the chain
chain sorry this input is different this
is a python function sorry
yeah so this input is going to come when
we invoke this chain along with the
prompt so I have got my basic prompt
ready now this is a list of instructions
so the list of instructions has the
input uh as one of these
So first input is this, second input is
this, third input is this. So one by one
the inputs will go to the model. Model
will think okay for this kind of a input
what
tool will be needed for this kind of a
tool what tool will be needed and for
this kind of a input what tool would be
needed. Okay. So one by one three API
calls are made you can say
and that you are passing to the
so prompt this is my entire prompt okay
that chat prompt template
um and then here is my gro model which I
initialized okay uh I can take any model
so let's assume that this gro model does
not support tool calling let's assume
although it does support as we have seen
but I'm not using the standard method of
tool calling for that gro model. I'm
calling the non-native support method.
Okay. So even though this gro model
whatever I have used above does support
tool calling but I'm not using that
support I'm creating that support
manually right
and the output parser. So this is how
what we get. So now here chain dom I
have created my chain and I'm mapping
the instructions. So what does this map
function do? Map function will one by
one. So see what is this map in Python
there's a concept of map filter. Okay.
So map
okay so map function runs a for loop
behind the scenes and takes the
instructions one by one from this list
and feeds it to the chain and feeds it
to the chain. Let me repeat map runs a
for loop behind the scenes. Okay, it's a
kind of enable only. You can see it's a
kind of runnable. Okay. And what and it
runs a lambda function and a number of
things. So not getting into the
technical but yeah map function is
technically a runnable and runs a for
loop behind the scenes. It will take the
instructions uh which is a list here and
from this list it will take each one of
the entries one by one and each entry
will be passed to your entire chain okay
one by one and the output of that chain
will be captured here in the responses
so you can see it's a list of three
responses and why is it a list of three
responses because three API calls were
made if there was only one API call then
you would have got only a single uh JSON
JSON with all the three outputs. We're
not getting a single JSON. We're getting
three JSONs. So, it's a list of three
JSON.
It's a you can say
list of three JSON
objects or outputs.
Okay. So, this is a JSON object which
was given clearly in the instructions
part of your
prompt. Okay. It has to be a JSON blob.
So three JSON blobs you can say.
Yeah. So this is one JSON blob which has
the name of the tool that is multiply
and the arguments. Okay.
Yeah. So name is web extract info and
this is the argument. Fine. Now let's
create a toolkit. Again the same thing
the way we did
And this is just to extract the name.
This is just to extract the name of the
tool and also the
parameters which are needed to call the
tool. And I am going to execute the tool
one by one. See here the model the gro
model has only given the information of
which tool to use
with what inputs. Simple
it has not yet executed it. See LLMs
cannot execute anything. You have to
understand LLMs will take the user query
understand the user query do a reasoning
and for each of the user inputs it will
tell okay for this query this is the
right tool to be used with these set of
parameters and that's exactly what we
have got as the result of the API call.
So three API calls were made by whom? by
the mapper function behind the scenes.
Okay, based on these three queries,
now is the time to actually execute the
tool and you see that the tool execution
is happening here. So, first I have to
iterate over the responses. See this is
your responses. From the responses, I'm
extracting the name of the tool one by
one and then also I'll be extracting the
arguments within the tool. So, that's
exactly what I'm doing here. Okay, I'm
extracting the tool name, converting
that into a lower case and also
extracting the set of arguments and then
I'm executing it. Invoke using those
arguments. Invoke the tool using those
arguments. But which tool? One by one
the selected tool will change. So in the
first iteration the selected tool is
multiply. The second iteration the sec
the selected tool is uh get weather and
in the third it is the search weather
extract info sorry web extract info. So
now this is taking some time but yeah
finished.
Super. So this is where the tool
execution is happening. Okay. So now
imagine that
this is exactly what you are doing
manually to create an agent. this many
codes this much of a code you are doing
manually okay step by step to visualize
the steps in an agent
what if I told you all of this was
possible in one line and that's what the
langraph does the entire thing
orchestrated in one line okay here I
have done a low code version of the
agent okay
so now I'm extracting all the
information from that uh output Okay,
that tool output. This is the tool
output and extracting all the five
documents. You can see
fine
fine.
So now you know how to call the agents
uh or tools basically within langu. If
you want to create a end toend agent, we
can also do that. But again uh these are
just going to be academic in nature.
Okay. No one really creates a end to end
tool in Lchain as I've already mentioned
it several times. But if you still want
to have a use case a simple example of
how do you you know call custom tools in
lang chain this is the end overall
notebook based on that. Now let's start
with the lang graph. Okay. So first we
will so today I'll just discuss the
theory part.
And the actual
theory part means we will not still be
creating agents but these are like uh
going to be demi agents you can say okay
uh they will not be solving a business
problem okay so so to solve a business
problem uh we'll take a end to end
project so don't ask me what is the
business use case of this notebook or
the next notebook okay here the only
business use case that we'll be
discussing is understand the langraph
framework work. How an agent is created
in the
langraph framework? What will this agent
do?
What is the business use case? Those
kind of questions are irrelevant
for next 1 hour. Okay? When to use this
agent? Don't ask me these kind of
questions. Okay? We just want to create
an agent and see what this agent does.
That's the only understanding I'm going
to explain. So I'll not entertain any
question which is related to the
business part of this agent. Okay. These
are as I have already mentioned first
let's learn how to create an agent. What
is the framework? What are the steps?
How do you create that graph? How do you
execute that graph? How do you interpret
the outputs? So all those things let's
learn how to create that agent first.
Okay. What are the different things
available like in this case I'm talking
about routing this and that which will
be used in the next project actually.
Okay.
Fine. So, let me share this code. I just
ran this code before the class. So, I'm
going to
run this all over again.
Okay, there are questions
is Grock from X
this see the spelling this is G R O Q
not K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K
K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K
K K K is from Musk.
So this is not your Musk's platform.
Okay, Proful. How is LLM calling the
tools? LLM is not calling the tools.
Tool call means executing the tool. LLM
cannot execute the tools. So let's use
the right words. That's how what you
have to learn. Okay. So tool call means
executing the tool. Ultimately LLM
cannot execute the tool. It will only
think reason for this input which tool
to call and it is only giving me output
that prashant for these are the uh kind
of queries these are the tools that you
have to execute. you have to execute
with these inputs. That's what we have
been seeing every time. Okay, these are
the tools that you have to execute.
Okay, and that to execution is being
done explicitly here. Model is not
executing. I am doing that tool
execution explicitly. Is that super
clear? Everyone just type clear in the
chat. Okay,
everyone.
Or you can write down this statement in
the chat. Model does not execute the
tool. Just write down this statement for
your understanding. Let it register in
your mind
deepest. Okay. Model does not execute
the tool. Model only gives the
information about which tool to use with
the parameters. Okay. For a given user
query and scenario. Model does not
execute the tool. who does the tool
execution agent. We have not built an
end to-end agent in this case. We have
just seen how to bind the tools with a
LLM and execute the tool externally. If
you want to execute the tool internally,
then the better way is to do it via
langraph. That's what we are going to do
now. Okay. End to end agent. So here in
this entire notebook, I have not claimed
that I have created an agent.
Okay. What we have done is how to call
tools with a LLM. Call tools with an
agent. Okay. But calling of the tool
with an uh sorry calling the tool with a
model LLM. Okay. But calling as such
directly is not included within the API
call. API call does not execute the
tool. Right? API call only
invokes and uh asks the model pass for
this query which tool should I execute?
That information is the output.
That output goes to u execution
externally. Okay.
Sriant is having some error. No.
Rhare it. See the link doesn't change. I
have saved it. Link never changes. you
just have to refresh your
um
browser. Okay? Even if I paste this 100
times, this link doesn't change. So if
you got this link yesterday or last
week, it's going to be the same link
only. Okay? All you have to do is just
refresh. I normally at the end of the
session,
save it and once it is saved, you just
have to manually refresh. Okay? Clear?
Okay,
perfect. Okay, so let's go ahead now
from simple chains to stateful agents.
That's the overall thing we are going to
do now. So now we know how to create a
chain, how to bind the tool with the um
LLM and now there is a word called a
stateful because I mentioned that agent
will not be able to function properly
without the state. So I want to create a
stateful agent because model API calls
are stateless. I have repeated this
several times every single session.
Model API calls that you are making any
API call to you are making to any of
these models they are stateless. Okay.
Whether it is a Gok model, OpenAI model,
any model. So for example here you are
making a API call uh
so wherever what is that go
huh here so you're making an API call
here okay this is this is the code and
when you execute this okay you are
making an API call Right? You configure
and you are making an API call and you
are printing the output. This is
stateless. If you simply ask, okay, what
did I ask you before? Let's see what
happens. And the model has no idea
what did I just ask before?
Okay.
Let's see the output. You see this is
what I had asked. Okay, now let's see
what happens.
We didn't ask anything before this. This
is the beginning of every time I execute
this is what will happen because model
has no idea what conversation has
happened before. That is the meaning of
stateless.
Is this clear everyone? Just type clear.
That is the meaning of stateless.
Stateless means models
LLM API calls are stateless
where
model has no idea about the previous
interactions and that is why you need
that state. Okay. So agent
needs that state so that it can keep a
track of what all things have happened.
Okay. And what it needs to do in that
sequence of events. Okay.
So lang chain agents are very
straightforward. I mean no exotic
things. If you still want to create an
agent, maybe I can show you sometime
later. But there is literally no no not
much use of a lang agent. So it's better
to go with directly langraph instead of
spending too much time on lang chain
then. Okay. So now lang graph uh agents
are much more you know versatile. uh
think about a straight road map going
from A to B to C that's what the leng
agent will be so if I simply instruct
this delivery boy go to person A then go
to person B and then go to person C
that's it and your job is done and you
can go back home simple but here in this
case I'm saying overall task is to
deliver the three packets to A B and C
you choose your path you choose your
vehicle you choose your uh uh you know
overall how you are going to manage your
time you want to visit A before lunch or
you want to visit B and C before lunch
it's up to you you have to find out your
best way or best mode uh and at the end
your net task is to deliver these three
packets that's exactly what Langraph
agents try to do okay so I'm just giving
an analogy here a city map with
intersections and roundabout decide
where to go if needed loop back if
needed come back remember so for example
it went to uh A was not present at home
that point of time fine it will go to B
and then it will go to C and then it
knows that A was not present so I
couldn't deliver it back to A so it will
come back to A and reattempt
okay so that's probably what I'm
referring here
so in the core concepts you can see uh
there are
h So agent is like
sorry state is like the memory of the
agent but
don't get misled by the statement. There
is a separate concept called as memory
in which we will be tracking the
conversations of the user
with the models separately. Okay. or the
previous tasks the history of the
previous conversations and the tasks
that is maintained in a separate memory
module let's say in a separate memory
module that's a different thing okay so
here is like a uh short-term memory I
would say because for each task there
will be a state mentioned okay overall
so it's a temporary memory you can say
no doubt so it's a shared object because
if I am creating three agents to deliver
A, B and C. Now depending on which agent
is closer to A, B and C, each of them
will decide, okay, agent uh one says
that I'm close to B, so I can deliver it
to B. Agent uh number two says that I'm
close to A, so I'll go and deliver A.
Agent three will say I have no other
option. I'll go to uh deliver C. Fine.
So that is what now
there has to be a place where each of
these agents are updating the job sheet.
Okay. And that is the state here I'm
talking about. This gets passed between
all these steps in your graph. Graph is
like a sequence. But this sequence
doesn't have to be linear. It can loop
back. It can iterate. It can branch out.
It can merge. So it's like a complex
graph.
Okay. Which will have multiple steps.
And as I just said these steps doesn't
have to be linear in nature. They can be
branching, merging and all that exotic
things happening.
So each of these steps will have u sorry
the agent state will carry information
like conversation history and tool
results. Now conversation history and
tool results for that particular overall
job. If the job changes tomorrow then
the entire conversation history will be
uh
re placed I would say. Okay. So this is
for the entire agent. So if the agent is
re-executed then conversation history
will be deleted and replaced with the
newer one. Okay.
So we typically define the structure or
the schema using the type dick. So this
is again you can use type dict or you
can use pinatic also it's completely up
to you because now uh agent state is all
handled internally there is least user
interference
understand what I'm trying to say okay
this is an internal state user does not
directly interact with the state user
interacts with the agent you can say
overall okay and state is an internal
state or a schema.
So since the user does not have a direct
interaction u there is least chance that
the schema will not be followed and so I
don't have to enforce
okay and for that reason I can use the
type dict reliably okay remember this
then what are nodes and edges so let me
just draw this in simplest terms what
are nodes and edges
So if this is node one and this is your
node
two. Okay.
So this is your edge. So connection
between the nodes is called as an edge.
Simple nothing more. Okay. So these are
the connections and nodes are where your
LLMs are. So in each of the nodes you
can have an LLM. Each of the node can be
an agent
or simply
simply an LLM API call. So when I say
agent that means I have LLM plus tool.
So prompt will always be there because
you cannot have a API call without a
prompt. So prompt is anyway I'm assuming
inherently. So each node will have its
own prompt. No doubt because here also
there is a LLM. Here also there is an
LLM. Okay. So there are there could be
two ways this agent could be configured.
Sorry this node could be configured.
This node could be configured as a agent
on its own. So you can call it as a sub
agent then sub agent one and the sub
agent two which is run by the node two.
So you can have sub aents okay within
the overall agent or this may not be an
agent altogether because it doesn't need
to have a tool it probably just needs to
have a API call. So that is also
possible. So for example I'll give a
simple example. So query so customer
query is there. Let's say that goes to a
node
and that goes to another node
and then goes to some router node. This
is a router node. Typically the router
nodes are written in this kind of a
roomus and that router node decides
which agent is being used. Now these are
actual agents.
So agent one, agent two and agent three
let's say. Now I'll show you what I mean
in this case. So let's say customer
query what are
your working
hours? Okay. So the first node the node
number one is making a simple LLM API
call. It's not an agent doesn't need a
tool and just it categorizes.
Okay. The purpose is to categorize
the customer query
as billing
or technical
or general.
Now the second node is again a simple
LLM API call. It's not an agent because
it will just do the sentiment
analysis.
Okay. And this agent will simply return
whether the query is whether the query
has a positive sentiment, negative
sentiment or a neutral sentiment.
That's it. That's the only output of
these two API calls. two backto-back API
calls and they are chained together as
two different nodes. Okay, so these are
technically not agents because it
doesn't need to have any tool a simple
that query the same query and where is
this node pulling the query from? The
node pulls the query from the agent
state.
Okay. And the output is fed back to the
agent state remember. So it pulls the
agent state as the input. Okay.
So and the output is fed back to the
agent state. This node also feds you
know takes the input from the agent
state.
Query is directly fed to the agent
state. Remember the query is fed to the
agent state. See this graph shows the
sequence of operations. Okay. But query
does not directly jump into the node
one. No let me repeat directly the query
does not jump to the node one. Query is
actually fed to the agent state.
Node one gets the information about the
customer query from the agent state. The
output is also fed back to the agent
state updated. This output is also fed
back to the agent state. So all the
agent sorry all the nodes will do the
read and write operations into the agent
state. Okay. So by the time the sequence
the workflow reaches the router now
router will decide based on the let's
say query uh sentiment
okay and the type of query which agent
will finally reply. So obviously when
I'm calling these as agents all these
three guys have access to some tool.
So there will be an LLM plus some tool
being used by each of these three
agents. That's why I'm calling them as
agents. Plus there will be a prompt. So
all the three things will be here
anyway. That's why I'm calling them as
agent. So these are the agents which
will finally reply back to the user.
Okay. Based on some LLM based on some
tool call and of course both are
orchestrated using a prompt. So prompt
will help the agent to make sense out of
the user query the everything else. I
mean plus these three agents are also
going to be connected to our agent
state. So from the agent state again
each of these three agents get an idea
about what all has happened. Okay, what
was the customer query read from the
agent uh state? What did the node one
do? What was the output of the node one?
Read from the agent state. What was the
output of the node two? Read from the
agent state. And then if that input is
needed for example so for example just
imagine that the agent one does not need
the information about the sentiment fine
it will not read it it will only read uh
let's say the agent one is a billing
agent sorry billing support agent agent
two is technical support agent billing
agent three is general support agent so
the billing support agent does not need
the sentiment it only needs the query
and the category just to back check that
indeed it is a billing agent query I
mean the query has been routed to the
right department kind of thing so that
is what is all happening within the
agent state okay remember that all the
updations will happen in the agent state
and these all things is what we call as
the state management so let's build one
agent and I think it will be much more
clearer okay
So I have installed all of these. Uh
this have just run a few minutes before
the session. So I'll be needing the open
AI keys. Let me define the state using
typed dict. So I'm just importing the
type dict that is the base model and
naming the state as state. So you can
literally have any other name here but
normally it's a uh you can say
convention to name it as a state. So you
can call it as a agent state also. No no
worries. You can call it as a agent
state also that's completely fine but
then make sure that everywhere it is
being referred as a agent state not just
simply a state okay so I'll just go back
and then what does the agent state have
the agent state has so what are you
defining in the class here you are
defining the schema for the state what
all information will be stored in that
trade.
So what all information will be stored
in that state that is defined here in
the schema. So what you are defining
here is the schema. This is a schema for
schema for agent
state.
uh let's not call it as a agent state
but lang graph state because your
langraph
lang graph
can have multiple agents okay so all the
agents will still be able to access the
same state okay now these are the fields
these are the fields
in the schema
and you can also define the data type so
schema also has the data type
data type
of the
data type of the fields present. So
these are fields or variables okay
present in the schema.
Okay. So that is what
it is.
But again uh since we are using type
dict we are not enforcing it but that is
not needed because these are all
internally updated. The user is not
updating the user is not influencing
these updates. So since these are being
done by the code themselves they'll
mostly adhere to the uh instructions.
Okay.
So messages will store the
input and output of each node.
Okay, this is the input and output of
each node. There there is only one
thing. Okay, now let me define a node
here. Now each node whenever I say that
a node gets executed. Okay, so I said
that query goes to the node one. So
typically the node is given by a box.
When the query goes to the node one and
the node one executes
the execution of the node one means a
function attached to that node is
executing. Just like tool execution
means a function attached to the tool
executes.
Exactly the same way when I say a node
is executing a function attached to the
node executes.
Is that clear? So right now I have not
attached that function to any node. I've
just created a function the code below.
I will attach this function to the node.
Remember that. So this is the function I
have created.
And what is this function doing? If you
read this closely. So the first input it
needs is the state itself. So this
function reads the state. Can you see
it? Function reads the state and this
function does a simple print and this
function returns the messages. So what
does that mean? Now since it is already
having access to the state initially the
state would be empty.
This function greater node will update
the messages section. it will update
that messages field with this string. So
this string gets
attached in a way to the messages. Okay.
So messages field will have this new
value. So this is the value and this is
the field. Now this field has to come
from the state only. Remember that if
there is a new field which is not a part
of the state then the state will not get
updated. So theoretically you can have
any name here. You can have any name
here messages 1 2 3 4. But the problem
is messages 1 2 3 4 then this field is
not present in the agent state and so
the agent state technically will not get
updated then. Okay, you might even get
an error. So that is possible.
So
let's execute this
and execute this.
Okay. Now let's build the graph. And
while building the graph, I am going to
attach that function with the node.
Okay. So here I am importing the state
graph. This is going to build your empty
graph for now. Starter and the ender.
Okay. So this is so this is your graph
builder state initialized. Now greater
node. Now you can see you are creating a
node. Add node means you are adding a
node where into the graph. You are
adding a node into the graph. The name
of the node is greater. And the function
that will get executed is greater node.
So that is where you are attaching the
function with the node here. And this is
the node name. This is optional. You can
attach uh a name to the greater node.
Now why this name is needed? So that you
can actually see this. So whatever the
name that you want to display on the
node is this string.
So name to be displayed on the node.
Okay. Uh maybe I can
uh
display
name of the
then you will realize what is happening.
Fine. And uh
now the only problem here is this name
has to match here because
uh theoretically I can give any other
name but there has to be a
way. So what this is doing
this is a conversation starter.
This is a conversation starter means
your query
will go to which node. So who is
capturing the query in the first place?
This guy is capturing the
query. And after capturing the user
query, this is a user query who is
capturing the starter node. This gets
automatically created. Okay? So starter
and ender nodes are already uh imported.
You are not creating them. You are only
creating this. Remember that here the
function being used is add edge not add
node. So remember once again these nodes
are already being imported. You can
scroll the code above and see I'm
already importing these nodes.
Okay. So I have already imported this
node, this node. So these are the nodes
being
imported.
You are adding a connection. So here you
have the start, you have the end.
Okay, you have already imported them and
now you are creating a greater node
and you are now adding a so this is what
gets created here but now you have to
add the edges. So this function add edge
between start and greater. So start and
greater this is the edge which gets
created. Okay. So this is what happened
and then you are saying add edge
add edge between greater and end. So
between greater and end this is the
second edge which gets added. Let me
know if everyone has understood till
here.
I'm not going to explain at this level
of granularity subsequently. I'll simply
say add nodes, add edges and build a
graph.
It should be clear later on. Okay.
So take 2 minutes to understand what is
happening because all the subsequent
codes will have the same code repeated
repeated will have n number of nodes and
number of edges. Looking at the code you
should be able to read who is being
connected to where.
Okay. So remember that the conversation
starter is always from the start. The
query is always captured by the start
and you don't have to write down a code
for that. That is the default. So user
query is always captured by the start.
User query is always captured by the
start. Remember that.
Okay.
So take 2 minutes understand. I'll
answer any questions before I go beyond
this. Okay.
Okay. So, Reuka had asked some time back
in order to maintain a state we have to
implement some kind of memory cache.
That's what we are doing. We are
maintaining a state. It's not memory or
cache the agent state.
Okay. But you can also implement memory
and caches. So there there are different
purpose for each of these things. So if
you want to only capture the API calls
input and output then you have to create
a separate memory module where the
conversation history will be there
between the user and the LLM.
Conversation history between the user
and the LLM that is captured mostly in
the memory. But the agent state is for
different thing. Different nodes will
keep a track of what node has run and
what is the output of each node. Okay.
In the entire graph, this entire graph
can be treated as the agent. So this is
the terminology and taxonomy. Understand
what is being referred as an agent. Here
agent could be referred as the entire
block. This would be referred as an
agent or could be referred as an agent
or individual node could also be agents.
Okay. if there is a tool call somewhere.
So right now I'm referring the entire
graph. This is our langraph graph. This
entire graph as an agent right now. So
until and unless there is a different
definition
you can for now assume that your entire
graph itself is an agent in this
notebook maybe also in the next
notebook.
Okay.
So that is one. Mohammad is asking can
you repeat the stateless model? Models
do not remember the previous
conversation history. That is the
meaning of stateless.
Aruka is asking for example chat GPD
does not remember. It must have a
similar memory.
This I think I have discussed so many
times. Okay.
So chat GPT is the application layer. I
remember I mentioned this very clearly.
So your GPT40 mini or GPT 5 5 5.1 these
are the models chat GPT is the
application interface. So what you have
created is an application using the
models. Who remembers the conversation?
The application remembers not the
models. Okay. So you have an application
layer and you have a web interface to
that application which is what you are
using by the name as chat GPT.
Okay. So you are not
directly accessing the model. You are
first accessing the application.
Applications keep a track of your
conversations and those conversations
are shared with your model.
Clear?
So adding edges is like correcting the
flow. Yes, absolutely. So there will be
branching also later I'll teach you in
the next notebook. How do you branch out
and how do you branch in merge those
branches? So everything any arrow that
you would see later is a edge. Any arrow
that you see later. Yes, absolutely.
Um
my dear Rajan is saying but we still
have to manually linking. Yes, that's
why I said here you create everything
from scratch one by one. It is like the
code is creating the nodes and the uh
graphs in your OpenAI agent builder kit.
You just had to do a drag and drop but
you did have to do manually uh drag and
drop and connect them right the same
thing you are doing using the code.
Remember everyone the last week we still
had to click
we still had to click to add the agent
nodes and we were able to connect those
agent nodes.
Okay, by manually
dragging those lines that edges we were
able to create same thing we are doing
but using the code.
So greater node is the ID.
Greater node is the name of the function
which will get executed.
Okay, it's not the id ID or anything.
Greater node is the function which gets
executed when this node is executed.
Greater here is the name of the node and
each node has a bound function behind
the scenes. Let's not unnecessarily
introduce taxonomy that will only
confuse. So there is nothing called as
ID things. Okay, it's the name of the
node which is the greater and the
function attached to the node which is
exactly a Python function. Simple. These
are only two things. Don't unnecessary
complicate.
Okay, name of the node and the function.
You just have to attach them. Where do
you attach? That attachment is happening
when you add the node into your graph.
That is where you are adding attaching.
Clear?
There are two nodes and both the nodes
write state. It means they are
overwriting. Yes.
Yes, it is overwriting and that's what
I'll show you. It is overwriting. And
how do I solve that problem? That also
I'll show you. Very good point. Okay. So
in this case if both the nodes are
accessing
of course they are not accessing
together right now in this flow. They
are going to access one by one. Right
now there is only one node. So of course
but in the next node there are going to
be two things and they will overwrite
because my agent state still has only
one parameter. You can see my agent
state acha I'm still using the same
state. You see in no way I did a
recreation of that state. So I'm still
using the same state. Okay. And your
state gets over it. And that I'll show
you. So I'll not give a spoiler alert
but your answer is correct.
And there is a way to resolve that
diagram shows you are showing a screen
has only one node. Yes, there is only
one node and later on we'll be creating
multiple nodes. So hold on. Um
is asking so we are using here lang
graph to add nodes and attach functions
to execute. Yes, absolutely. That's what
we have done until now. Now let's
execute and see step by step what is
happening. Okay.
So
I think I had done till here. Okay. Now
you have to compile. So this is done.
Now let's compile this. And once you
compile, you will be able to print. So I
think mostly this works 99% times. Uh
printing the node means basically just
displaying it visually. You can also use
this mermaid diagram again. But this is
not very reliable. This is using some
mermaid API behind the scenes. Many of
times this mermaid API does not work. So
if this gets printed, you are lucky
today. Many of the days I've seen this
code does not work. So don't be
surprised but mostly this will work.
Okay. So I'll have this code although in
most of my other notebooks as well but
be mentally and physically prepared that
this code can return you nothing or even
an error. But we'll still be able to
visualize it by simply typing graph and
press enter. Okay.
Okay. So I'm initializing the graph by
using some messages. So hi there is the
initial input which the user is directly
uh giving to the messages and using this
initial input I'm invoking the graph. So
now what is happening the first node
will read this initial input via start.
Okay. Now already at the start there is
this messages.
Okay. So when uh the control goes to the
start, it will display hi there and then
it will be replaced by your greeter node
with whatever greeting. Okay, I'm a
simple angraph agent. I think that was
the
greeter node. Let's go back and check.
Yeah, hello. I'm a simple angraph agent.
You can see. Okay.
Mhm. and then the final output will be
there. So your initial message hi there
has actually got replaced
has actually got replaced with
this new message coming from the next.
Okay, let me just draw it and show you.
So you have the start
and then you have the node uh greater
node
and then you have the end. Okay, end is
not doing anything. So in the start the
messages the messages this is coming
from your state. Okay this is your
state.
So the messages section had this as the
initial input. Okay. So when the control
went to the start okay it was already
having the information about hi there.
So this mostly will be your user query
or your conversation starter. User query
or conversation starter. Conversation
starter.
So when the control is up to start okay
when the start executes it essentially
reads that the message is high there.
Fine perfect no problem.
So if you just delete and connect the
start to end okay and then you check the
final state okay then it will still be
high there. It will still be high there.
But now what has happened is
now what has happened is
when the control goes to the next step
which is greater. Greeter has replaced
the same messages with
with
this message. Why this message? Because
that was the message uh present in uh in
the function. You can go back and check
the greeter function. The greater
function replaces that messages. You can
see the greater function is returning
this. The greater function is returning
this. So this guy
replaces it directly in the agent state.
It replaces this in the agent state.
Okay.
And so the final output if you see
already has the same. Okay. The final
output already has this. So let's do one
small activity. If that theory is same
in principle, I'll just
I'll just modify this. Okay, remember
I'll just modify this. And what I'm
going to do is I'll just add a simple
line here.
So start and end. Let's see what we get.
If not error, then what? Okay, so I've
got a lang chain. Sorry, lang graph.
in which I have
greater. Okay. Uh there is no connection
between uh this. Let's remove that
greeters also.
Let's remove that greater also. So there
is no confusion. Okay. So now there is a
simple graph from start to end. Fine
everyone from start to end.
And now let's execute this. Perfect. My
final output is also high there because
there was nothing to replace it. Is that
super clear everyone? Now what has
happened? Start has captured the user
initial input. The greater node is no
longer there. The greater node is no
longer there. So there is no replacement
of the messages. So the final state is
also the same as hi there because there
is nothing attached to the start and end
to you know uh they're already you know
static nodes I would say. Yeah. So end
is to give the final output to the end
user. That's the meaning of the end node
and start is simply to capture the user
query. That's it. So that is the purpose
of the start node and the end node. They
are not there to modify the state
anywhere.
Start will only capture the user query.
That is what I have done. Okay. And end
is throwing it back to the user. They
they are not supposed to do anything
else. Anything else has to be done in a
custom node. Okay. And you see the
moment I simply connected the start to
the end. I did not execute it. If you
want I can just show you. Okay. So start
end and the message is still the same.
But now if you have anything other than
that. Okay.
So this guy is overwriting. So that is
one problem that we have now recognized.
Okay. So problem is the overwriting
state. Okay. This is what has happened.
By default each node replaces the value
in the state.
Okay.
And this is a problem while building
meaningful conversations remember. Okay,
how much time we have? Okay, 10 minutes.
So let's add uh two nodes here. One is
the greeting node. One is the inquiry
node. Okay, so greeting node will say
that okay, I'm the first node and I'm
going to add a greeting and what is the
greeting? Hello there. There is another
node which will say that hi I'm the node
number two and I'm updating the messages
like how can I help you? So there are
two nodes here. Now I'm building a new
graph by adding these two nodes and then
wiring them properly. Fine. Let's look
at the graph and things will be clear.
So this is a multi-node graph. So the
start will capture the user query give
it to the greeting node. Output of the
greeting node will go to the enquiry
node. So these are the two nodes which
are going to modify the state. Remember
these are the two nodes which they are
going to modify the state.
Now let's do this one by one. So I am
invoking the entire graph now. So your
entire graph is an agent. Imagine that
way. Okay. So I'm invoking that entire
graph or executing that entire graph. So
one by one. So when the control went to
the greeting node, it added a greeting.
It added a greeting. And then when the
control went to the inquiry node, it
added this inquiry. So these are the two
static outputs coming from the print. If
you see the print messages, okay,
node one and node two. So those prints
are coming from here once the nodes are
getting executed and uh that is just to
show you that these nodes are getting
executed in that sequence. That's it.
Okay. Now let me see what is the final
output after. See the final output is
how I can help you today. So somewhere
intermediately
or intermittently the agent state had
messages equal to
uh hello there somewhere intermittently
it would have been there but that was
got replaced that is exactly replaced
okay so how can I help you today that
has replaced high there so the final
state only contains the last agent's
output
the final state has the last agent's
output. This is the problem or last
node's output technically now. Okay.
So the first node was completely
overwritten. This is not useful for a
chatbot because it wants to remember the
entire conversation history. So now that
leads to something called as reducers
add messages. Okay, I'll directly show
you. So this add messages is the one
which we'll be using as a reducer. Okay.
So this you can read it from the
documentation. Merges to list of
messages updating.
Okay. Now this is a new agent state.
Earlier I had used only state and now
this is a new agent state. I'm creating
charge state. Okay. Again using type
dict but this time the messages is a
list of messages. It's a list. Can you
see annotated
list of messages?
Okay. This is how I would read it. So
this is a field name and it's a
annotated list of messages. So basically
since it is a list it will you see the
data type is a list and list already has
a built-in method called as append. It
uses that append function. So each agent
will append into the messages list.
Once again let me repeat each node will
append into the messages list. Now the
messages data type is a list
and I have added a reducer here
which means each node subsequently will
only append its own message. It will
read the previous messages and append
its own message. It cannot overwrite
anything.
So the control went from one to two. Two
will read what one has done and just add
what I have done. That's it. When the
control goes to three, three will be
able to see what one has done, what
second has done, and okay, let me do
something and whatever I'm going to do,
I'll just add it into that same list. Is
that clear now? That is what this code
says.
Hello. Is that clear? This is what the
code says. Let's build and
see this. Okay. So now the nodes remain
the same, but they will now be appending
to the area. So the only only and only
change that I did was while building the
state graph.
While building the state graph the name
of the
state agent state changes. Okay. Earlier
it was only state that is what I had
created and now it is the charge state.
Fine. Rest all code is exactly the same.
Okay. So this is only one line of code
which has changed. Let me execute this.
This is a graph. So graph and everything
is same. Nothing new. Now when I
execute, let's see what happens.
Okay, this output is also the same. You
might not feel the difference. But now
when I print the output, you will see
the difference. Okay, so the human
message, hey, I need some help. That is
what you initialized it with. So this
was the user query
which was initialized. So this is the uh
message which the start captured start
captured this. Okay.
And then this is all response data ID,
id and all that. Okay, this is hello
there coming from your greeter node.
This is coming from the greeter node.
And then this is the human message
coming from your inquiry node. How can I
help you today? So I see all the three
outputs and this entire thing is a
Python list. You can see there's a
Python list of messages and the entire
thing is actually a dictionary. That's
why I've used the type dictionary. Okay,
fine. So this is clear and if you want I
can just print them. This is just a
simple Python code. If you're still
wondering and pondering just copy paste
to charge JPD it will explain you. But
the purpose of this code is to just
print this in a more sensible manner in
a more jailable manner. Okay. So I'm
just printing the same output by using
this simple for loop one by one. Okay.
So I'm just extracting the AI and the
human message part. You can see human
message and the AI part. That's the only
thing that I'm extracting. AI message
right now is empty because there is no
API call being made. That's why in all
these cases API sorry AI message part is
empty and only you can see the human
message part being updated. Human
message this is also human message.
There is also human message when there
is a actual API call then the AI message
part will also be there.
Fine. So now the state finally contains
initial messages plus the outputs from
both the nodes correctly preserving the
entire history. Okay. This is not
memory. This is not caches. So do not
unnecessarily confuse yourself. Okay.
This is purely agent state.
So use the right terms for the right
things. Don't try to find analogy
everywhere. Okay. So that forceful
analogy thing will only confuse you.
This is agent. Agent builds and
maintains its own state and each node is
able to use that agent state for
updating what it can already uh you know
update and see what all things have
already happened.
Okay. So this is the thing. Note down
these words, note down these statements
and remember this is how you even convey
this is the way you understand yourself.
Okay. So unnecessary don't try to find
analogy and make it simpler. I have seen
that in most technical terms the moment
you start making analogies or try to
make it simpler using again some of
these uh analogies you are getting
wrong. You're making it wrong.
Okay that will lead to only further
confusions. Okay. So last part uh that
will take another maybe 2 minutes I
think.
So but so much of the effort but can we
have a end to end decent thing? Okay
I'll take another five minutes. Okay
so
cycle now what do you mean by cycle?
Okay so basically looping back. Okay the
output of the node one loops goes to the
agent two. agent two can loop back to
the uh agent one or node one. Okay. So
that is called a cycling
and for that we can also use conditional
agit. So for example uh now one node
let's say the node one goes to node two.
Now whether the node two will end the
conversation or will it go to the node
three. For that I can add conditional
edges.
Okay. So here um I'm going to uh take a
simple use case. Okay. So until the user
says by
it will be looped. Okay.
A conditional edge uh again calls a
function. So let's see this one by one.
Okay.
Uh
okay. I'm importing a system message
like a human message, AI message and
there is a system message. Okay.
Again you can use the same type dict uh
chat state but it is since already there
uh I'm not
typing it again. If you want you can
type it again. Okay but every time you
invoke the overall graph the state
refreshes. Remember that what do you
mean by invoke here? Every time you
invoke
okay even though the name of the state
is same the same name of the state you
are passing here also. Okay, you will be
using here, you'll be using later on.
Okay, chat state. But this state will
get refreshed every time the graph is
invoked.
Let me repeat third times this state. So
same state is being used by multiple
graphs. You if you have observed the
graphs, multiple nodes, multiple agents,
whatever word you want to use fine. But
every time this graph gets invoked,
this graph gets invoked, the chat state,
the state somewhere that is present in
your RAM, okay, gets refreshed.
But the structure remains the same. So
here I'm going to use the structure
that's it. Okay. So I'll be invoking it
later. So let's say I'll be invoking it
later. Uh where is it? Yeah, here I am
invoking it. No, this is model invoke.
This is the graph and I'm going to
invoke it later. Okay. So here
chatboard.invoke and the same chat state
will get updated. Okay.
Fine.
Okay. So this is the chatbot node. The
main node for our chatbot. So first
before you start creating the node what
is the best practice you create a
function which you are going to attach
to that node. So this is the function
which I'm going to attach to the chatbot
node. Okay. So starter start chatbot
node end basic structure you can say.
So this is generating response and I'm
initializing a model here no doubt and
I'm reading can you see what are we
doing? This is reading the user query
from the messages. Huh.
Five minutes. Five minutes.
Okay. So, close the door. Yeah. So, here
I'm reading get the current conversation
history. That's what I told you. We are
not just writing values. We can also
read the values. So, I'm reading the
messages from the history which is
coming from the state automatically.
This is a system message. Okay. You are
a helpful assistant. You can put
anything. So this is the role
essentially I've been talking about the
role task you put within the
prompt. The role is normally you put in
the system message.
Now you are making a API call
model.invoke means API call in that API
call the system prompt plus the user
query. So this messages will have the
user query. So system message plus the
user query. Okay. These two combined
together this is plus means what
you are just appending concatenating is
the correct word you are just
concatenating two strings so that
combined string is now going to the
model for your API call and now I'm uh
updating the messages with the response.
So whatever is that uh response from the
model that is updated as a list. Can you
see it's a list? So return the AI
response to be added to the state. So
this is now added to the state message.
Simple. Now this is my conditional check
node.
Not yet. But this is the function which
I'm going to attach to the conditional
check node. Okay. Router node in a way.
H. So should continue. So again it reads
the state
prints checking for the exit condition
reads the last message. So minus one
because I told you that state will be a
list. So I I am just looking at the last
message. So minus one means look just at
the last message. Okay. If the last
message contains anywhere by if the user
says by then the conversation has to
end, right?
If the user says by
or anywhere there is a by in the end
okay
the conversation has to end otherwise it
will go back to the continue chat. Now
what is this continue chat? This is the
name of the
node
which I'll be using later. Okay. So I
haven't yet created that node but this
continue chat will be a node. So let's
create these two functions
and finally we'll start wiring. So enter
the chatbot node should continue your
router and then it will decide whether
to enter. So see you create that chatbot
node attach
and then you set the entry point at the
chatbot. So directly the start is uh
attached to the chatboard or you can add
an edge either way it is fine. Okay.
automatically. So you have set you are
not adding it. Uh so earlier if you see
I had added an edge from start to the
greeting node. So instead of doing that
you can also use this
set entry point. In this case,
start will be automatically wired to
your chatbot and chatbot is wired
the chatbot is wired to should continue.
So this is what is happening. The
chatbot is continue uh chatbot is wired
to should continue that is your
conditional router
and it is also wired to end. So two
things it is being wired to remember.
See, I'm just zooming out just to show
you.
Okay.
So,
chatbot this is still here. Okay. Now
that is
so in the next chatbot is attached to
should continue. So this is your should
continue uh I mean it will not be
displayed but this is a conditional
node. So think it this way. So chat
bot is attached to a router node and
this router node is called as should
continue. Now this is not displayed
unfortunately. Okay this is not
displayed and from here two things will
happen.
One is continue chart.
Continue chart and the other is end.
Can see these are the two things. Okay.
Number one and number two. So this is
your number one and number two. Fine.
And then the continue chat is attached
back to chatbot. Okay. What does that
mean? So from here
this is wired back to this guy.
your continue chat is wired to your
chatbot. So from here it is wired back
to your chatbot. So that is the loop it
gets created and whereas end is wired to
end. So this end
this end small end sorry this is wired
to actual end node. This is my end node.
This is end node. So this is wired to
the end node. Okay. And here it's loop
back. That's the exact way. And this is
your start.
That's how you read it.
That is how you read it. So this router
function that we have used, okay, that
is a function that is not a node
technically, which is why it is not
displayed in the graph. Remember that
router function is not a node
technically. Okay, that is the reason it
is not being displayed.
Okay.
And even this is should continue. If you
see this is also not being displayed.
This is also not being displayed because
that is also a function.
Okay. So that is what is happening.
Think it's good. And then all you have
to do is just
start this conversation. So,
what is generative AI?
Uh-oh,
I had to execute this.
So, now you're building an agent end to
end. Okay,
you're wrapping your Huh. So, in this
code, what is happening? You might be
thinking what is happening here? You're
wrapping your entire graph into a agent.
So, that is what is happening. And you
are wrapping it into an agent. Simple.
Okay.
So
this
so it is now
generating the response from the model.
Actual model API call is being made
because we have already used chat GPT
here to invoke remember.
So it is going to give some answer.
Perfect. So it has given some answer and
now it is if you want I can give
examples this and that. Now say this is
like literally mimicking your chart GP
interface in a Jupyter notebook. Okay. I
can ask so summarize
uh this
into bullet points. Now I'm expecting
because of the agent state. I'm
expecting be because of the agent state.
You see because of the agent state it
knew
see I said summarize this in two bullet
points. So because of the agent state it
knew exactly what summarization I'm
looking for.
The beauty can see.
No,
that has not happened. Oh, sorry, sorry.
Right now, we are not passing the
conversation history. Sorry, sorry. That
that part will come later in the memory.
Uhhuh. This is just the agent state to
track what each node has done. But not
for the LLM. So, for the LLM part, it
has to be still done. Okay. Anyway, but
uh I can actually keep on uh conversing
because it is still asking me. Uh so I
can ask uh agentic AI versus
uh AI agent in two bullet
points.
Let's see.
Okay, so I've got two bullet points. one
for agent, one is for AI agent and let's
say thanks by so once I say by then
automatically it will stop
I hope
no
exit sorry the user has to type exit uh
so this is what the code says so I'll
have to type exit
it will stop you see so remember that
unless the user is typing exit
It is in a while loop. Remember it is in
a while loop. This is not a very
efficient way of doing things. So this
is very very crudest way. So actually
wrapping this entire thing into a proper
u way to orchestrate that is what we'll
learn in the next notebook. Okay. This
is a very very you know crude way of
building a chatbot. Okay. using a while
loop and then invoking the graph again
and again and tracking what the user is
saying. There's not very intelligent way
of doing things. But at least this is
where the you know real learning comes.
How to build a agent, how to you know
update the states, how to create the
state, update the states, how to wire,
how to create the nodes, how to build
the conditional address. So those things
are you know discussed in this notebook
that these are the main you know
takeaways from here conditional edges
reducers because the next notebook will
already assume that you know what are
status what the notebooks are what's are
edges what reducers are what are
conditionalizers so these explanations
will not be repeated directly
we'll jump into advanced topics like
check memory checkpointing this is where
the model will
know the previous conversations. Okay,
right now the agent knows the previous
conversations not the model that's why
it was not able to recolct. So agent
knowing and model knowing there are two
different things. Okay.
And then more flow control for example
send and uh command. So this we will see
how to execute parallel nodes. Right now
it is still sequential but what if you
want to create parallel nodes and so on.
Okay, I'll stop here. Uh I think we are
done for the day. So tomorrow we'll
start with a third agent. Okay, and
which will be creating a conditional
router like this proper and build a
customer support agent without a model.
And then in the next notebook we will
attach a model and make it agentic. So
this is the sorry agentic version of
that.
Okay. So this is the fourth one.
So let me see if there are any
questions. We are done.
So one is asking will list grow
dynamatically? It will grow dynamically
as the more and more agent conversations
are happening. It will grow.
If user will have more common variables
gross nodes then how can I declare
variables inside state class and this
more examples will be there in the
subsequent
projects where you will have more number
of uh variables in the state. So don't
worry we have already addressed that.
Okay. So we'll create a full on agents
where you'll have at least four to five
variables within the agent state and
which state variable will be updated
that also can be done just like you
remember um in the agent builder toolkit
uh customer support agent that we built
uh in the last session. Okay. So there
we had three global variables one for
the query, one for the sentiment, one
for the query category. Same thing we
can have in lang graph also.
So chat state refreshed means what uh
means what the what all the previous
agents and nodes have done they'll just
get cleared from the memory. Okay that's
the main thing.
Okay.
Yay. Okay. So
uh if I say chat box continue it will go
back to the start
won't my previous conver see there are
two different things we are talking one
is the conversation being tracked in the
agent state and one is the conversation
being tracked in the model. Okay, we are
right now not tracking for the model. It
is all being updated in the agent state.
Okay, but that updation in the agent
state is not being shared with the
model. So model still is stateless as of
now. The conversation history is not
being passed on to the model. Remember
that. So model cannot apply its brain to
continue or not because it does not see
that history. So the only way to control
the overall flow is via the code and in
the code that is the reason I have
hardcoded that unless and until the user
says exit don't exit. There is no other
way you can control the user flow.
Is that clear? There is no other way you
can control the user flow. User flow or
the conversation flow
definitely not the model because model
conversations are still being stateless
in this example. we have not implemented
proper memory
only that is the way that the model will
decide to continue or not. Right now
that decision is being taken explicitly
by the agent uh or the agent state.
Okay. Why and how? Because of the while
equal to true. So by default it will
continue. That's the while equal to true
means. By default it will continue
unless the user says exit.
Okay. So, tomorrow we have uh a Q&A
session. Uh I think I forgot to announce
that. Okay. So, tomorrow we have a Q&A
session. I should have announced that.
Uh yeah.
Okay. Uh so, everyone who has more
queries, please join that uh tomorrow
session. Okay. Time and link has been
shared.
So any questions from all the previous
sessions we'll take it tomorrow. Okay.
Thank you.